CIS5680: Game Design Practicum (Spring 2026) 

 

Group Game Project 1 

 

In this assignment, you will work in a team of three to develop a prototype of an original game 
concept based on one of the attached themes. 

 

Game Project 1 Schedule 

Here’s the schedule of Major Milestones for Game Project1: 

1. Thurs., Feb. 26: Three (3) High Concepts 
2. Mon., Mar. 2: Game Design Doc (use Design Doc outline provided) 
3. Wed., Mar. 18: Alpha Version/Playtest 
4. Wed., Mar. 25: Beta Version/Playtest 
5. Mon., Mar. 30: Final Version/Demo 
6. Wed., April 1: Game Trailer and Gameplay videos due 


 

Game Project Requirements 

 

The requirements for the game project are as follows: 

1. Create three (3) High Concepts for your game. Your game concepts must include some 
type of novel game play mechanic incorporating physics: 
a. Do not make the game mechanic overly complex; simpler is always better, and 
b. Do not choose a story-driven game concept as the amount of art and animation 
required is prohibitive. 


2. In order to accomplish this, you will need to do the following: 
a. Between now and Thursday (2/26) get together with your team members for 60 
minutes and generate at least 60 ideas in a group brain storming session based on 
the Game Themes attached. Each person should take a turn as a leader, writing 
down as many ideas as you can on a whiteboard. 
b. Using the GameGPT tool, generate three (3) high concepts from the 5 game 
design constraint sets you like the best 
c. Pick the two (2) best ideas from your group brainstorming session and create the 
corresponding game design constraint sets in the GameGPT tool. Next, generate 
two high concepts using the GameGPT tool based on your two best brainstorming 
ideas. 
d. After you are done generating your high concepts, go to the submission tab of the 
GameGPT tool to generate and show the corresponding files. Copy the concept 
art generated into the corresponding concept art folder, zip the submission folder 
and upload the corresponding zip file to the High Concept assignment folder on 
Canvas. 





3. Summarize the three (3) best high concepts using the High Concept template provided in 
the High Concept Assignment folder on Canvas. Submit these three High Concept 
Summary docs along with the full high concept description generated from the GameGPT 
tool to the High Concept assignment folder on the CIS5680 course canvas site. Also 
email me a copy of your High Concept Summary docs. After I review your high 
concepts, one of the three will be selected for further development. Please send your 3 
High Concept Summary docs to me via email as soon as you can, but no later than 
midnight on Thursday, Feb. 26th. 
4. Other requirements 
a. The game must be implemented using Unreal as the game engine 
b. Game development must be based on a Game Design Document describing both 
the technical and creative aspects of the full game. Must include a detailed Work 
Plan (each task and subtask should be described in detail and list the people 
performing the work) and a development schedule (i.e. Gantt chart) showing the 
duration of the Work Plan tasks and the dates of the major and minor milestones 
c. Project must include a demonstration of a fully functional prototype (typically one 
level of the game) based on the Work Plan and Schedule contained in the Design 
Doc. 
d. Final deliverable of the game prototype must include: an executable version of the 
game, the Unreal project files and two videos, one demonstrating the gameplay 
and the other a promotional trailer. 




 

 

 

Game Themes 

 Tiny vs Huge 
 It’s Not a Bug it’s a Feature 
 Forking 
 Optical Illusion 
 Lights and Shadows 
 You are a cat 
 Too much is never enough 
 Fractal 
 Burning 
 Recursion 
 Inertia 
 Queues 
 Twisted 
 Roadkill 


 


